README.md, before:

# printkitty.js


<img src="img/uwu-transparent.png" alt="drawing" width="200"/>
<span style="display: block;">~nyaa!</span>

## What is this?

This is a (pretty awful) utility to use with 'Cat Printers', aka GB01 / GT01 printers.

The are small, monochrome, battery powered thermal printers that communicate using Bluetooth Low Energy.

They are available at the usual online retailers such as [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Wireless-Bluetooth-Printers-Learning-Compatible/dp/B09MCNVRJD/).

<img src="img/cat-printer.png" alt="The GB01 cat printer" width="200"/>
<span style="display: block;">The "GB01" cat printer</span>

## What can it do?

This tool let you use your beloved cat printer from your computer. It can be used in two ways;

1. IPP mode, where it emulates a *normal printer*. You can simply add it in your system preferences and print from any application!

2. CLI mode, where you can directly interact with it from the command line. In CLI mode you can print images and text, eject and retract paper and get device information.

## Installation

You'll need NodeJS and NPM installed, this has been tested with v17.

1. Clone this repository (or download it) by running;
`git clone https://github.com/mickwheelz/printkitty.js.git`

2. Change to the directory you cloned the code into: `cd printkitty.js`

3. Install the dependencies with `npm install`

4. If you want to use IPP mode, you need `ghostscript` installed. Do this on macOS with `brew install ghostscript`

4. Link the command with `sudo npm link`

Once you've done this you can simply run `printkitty --<options>` 

See the next section for some examples

### Examples

Run in IPP mode and listen for print jobs with the name 'kitty'

`printkitty --ipp --ippname "kitty"`

Print an image called `grumpy.png` that is in the same directory as the code

`printkitty --image grumpy.png`

Print "hello world" in Comic Sans at 100px high

`printkitty --text "hello world" --font "Comic Sans MS" --fontsize 100`

Eject paper for 100 steps

`printkitty --eject 100`

**NOTE:** it currently only auto-exits after printing images or text, for other commands you'll need to press `crtl+c` when they have finished.

### Command Reference

|Flag|Alias         |Description                                                                        |Data Type  |Default|Required|
|----|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-------|--------|
|    |--version     |Show version number                                                                |boolean    |       |        |
| -i |--image       |Path to the image you want to print (e.g `~/folder/image.png`)                     |string     |       |Yes OR  |
| -t |--text        |Text you want to print, default font is Arial, 20px                                |string     |       |Yes OR  |
| -f |--font        |The font to use in quotes, this must be provided as it exists on your machine (e.g `"Comic Sans MS"`)                                     |string     |`"Arial"`|        |
| -s |--size        |The font size to use, in pixels high (e.g `16`)                                    |integer    |`20`   |        |
| -g |--getinfo     |Returns printer info in hex                                                        |boolean    |       |Yes OR  |
| -u |--getstatus   |Returns printer info in hex                                                        |boolean    |       |Yes OR  |   
| -e |--eject       |Ejects a number of lines of paper (e.g `50`)                                       |integer    |       |Yes OR  |
| -r |--retract     |Retracts the paper by a number of lines (e.g `50`)                                 |integer    |       |Yes OR  |
| -n |--devicename  |The name of your cat printer (e.g `GT01`)                                          |string     |`GB01` |Yes     |
| -o |--timeout     |Time in seconds to wait before aborting, when connecting to the printer (e.g `10`) |integer    |`5`    |        |
| -l |--loglevel    |Logging level to use. Options: `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal.` |string     |`info` |        |
| -h |--help        |Show help                                                                          |boolean    |       |        |


## Future Ideas

There are a tonne of general improvements and optimisations to make but I'd like to also implement features such as:

* RESTful API
* GUI/Front End
* ~~IPP/PS driver so the printer can be used *...like a normal printer.*~~

## Thanks

This sillyness was made possible by below group of other cat printer aficionados:

* There is a wealth of information in [JJJollyjim's](https://twitter.com/JJJollyjim) repo [here](https://github.com/JJJollyjim/catprinter) and links to other cat printer projects

* [WerWolv](https://twitter.com/WerWolv) did a lot of discovery and has a great blog post [here](https://werwolv.net/blog/cat_printer) as well as a python implementation [here](https://github.com/WerWolv/PythonCatPrinter)

* [bad_opcode](https://twitter.com/bad_opcode) further documented the printers protocol [here](https://github.com/JJJollyjim/catprinter/blob/f5322f7d728ed491218d788f0eff6cad7e11ab3f/COMMANDS.md) and has a python implementation [here](https://github.com/amber-sixel/gb01print), which helped a lot in building this.

* [noopkat](https://twitter.com/noopkat) built a nice little [floyd-steinberg package](https://github.com/noopkat/floyd-steinberg), that saved me when I was having issues with [sharp's](https://sharp.pixelplumbing.com/) version.

* [watson](https://twitter.com/wa7son) for his really cool [ipp-printer package](https://github.com/watson/ipp-printer), that is the core of IPP mode.

* Last but not least, [xssfox](https://twitter.com/xssfox) was the one who inspired me to join in on this in the first place, she also has a python implementation [here](https://gist.github.com/xssfox/b911e0781a763d258d21262c5fdd2dec)

Commit message:

update readme, jsdoc, improve ipp mode printing

README.md, after:

# printkitty.js


<img src="img/uwu-transparent.png" alt="drawing" width="200"/>
<span style="display: block;">~nyaa!</span>

## What is this?

This is a (pretty awful) utility to use with 'Cat Printers', aka GB01 / GT01 printers.

The are small, monochrome, battery powered thermal printers that communicate using Bluetooth Low Energy.

They are available at the usual online retailers such as [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Wireless-Bluetooth-Printers-Learning-Compatible/dp/B09MCNVRJD/).

<img src="img/cat-printer.png" alt="The GB01 cat printer" width="200"/>
<span style="display: block;">The "GB01" cat printer</span>

## What can it do?

This tool let you use your beloved cat printer from your computer. It can be used in two ways;

1. IPP mode, where it emulates a *normal printer*. You can simply add it in your system preferences and print from any application!

2. CLI mode, where you can directly interact with it from the command line. In CLI mode you can print images and text, eject and retract paper and get device information.

## Installation

You'll need NodeJS and NPM installed, this has been tested with v17.

1. Clone this repository (or download it) by running;
`git clone https://github.com/mickwheelz/printkitty.js.git`

2. Change to the directory you cloned the code into: `cd printkitty.js`

3. Install the dependencies with `npm install`

4. If you want to use IPP mode, you need `ghostscript` installed. Do this on macOS with `brew install ghostscript`

4. Link the command with `sudo npm link`

Once you've done this you can simply run `printkitty --<options>` 

See the next section for some examples

### Examples

Run in IPP mode and listen for print jobs with the name 'kitty'

`printkitty --ipp --ippname "kitty"`

Print an image called `grumpy.png` that is in the same directory as the code

`printkitty --image grumpy.png`

Print "hello world" in Comic Sans at 100px high

`printkitty --text "hello world" --font "Comic Sans MS" --fontsize 100`

Eject paper for 100 steps

`printkitty --eject 100`

**NOTE:** it currently only auto-exits after printing images or text, for other commands you'll need to press `crtl+c` when they have finished.

### Command Reference

|Flag|Alias         |Description                                                                        |Data Type  |Default|Required|
|----|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-------|--------|
|    |--version     |Show version number                                                                |boolean    |       |        |
| -p |--ipp         |Run in IPP/Postscript mode, exposes a generic PS printer you can use from any app  |boolean    |       |Yes OR  |
| -q |--ippname     |Name to broadcast when in IPP/PS Mode (e.g `"kitty"`)                              |string     |`"cat printer uwu"`||
| -i |--image       |Path to the image you want to print (e.g `~/folder/image.png`)                     |string     |       |Yes OR  |
| -t |--text        |Text you want to print, default font is Arial, 20px                                |string     |       |Yes OR  |
| -f |--font        |The font to use in quotes, this must be provided as it exists on your machine (e.g `"Comic Sans MS"`)                                     |string     |`"Arial"`|        |
| -s |--size        |The font size to use, in pixels high (e.g `16`)                                    |integer    |`20`   |        |
| -g |--getinfo     |Returns printer info in hex                                                        |boolean    |       |Yes OR  |
| -u |--getstatus   |Returns printer info in hex                                                        |boolean    |       |Yes OR  |   
| -e |--eject       |Ejects a number of lines of paper (e.g `50`)                                       |integer    |       |Yes OR  |
| -r |--retract     |Retracts the paper by a number of lines (e.g `50`)                                 |integer    |       |Yes OR  |
| -n |--devicename  |The name of your cat printer (e.g `GT01`)                                          |string     |`GB01` |Yes     |
| -o |--timeout     |Time in seconds to wait before aborting, when connecting to the printer (e.g `10`) |integer    |`5`    |        |
| -l |--loglevel    |Logging level to use. Options: `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal.` |string     |`info` |        |
| -h |--help        |Show help                                                                          |boolean    |       |        |


## Future Ideas

There are a tonne of general improvements and optimisations to make but I'd like to also implement features such as:

* RESTful API
* GUI/Front End
* ~~IPP/PS driver so the printer can be used *...like a normal printer.*~~

## Thanks

This sillyness was made possible by below group of other cat printer aficionados:

* There is a wealth of information in [JJJollyjim's](https://twitter.com/JJJollyjim) repo [here](https://github.com/JJJollyjim/catprinter) and links to other cat printer projects

* [WerWolv](https://twitter.com/WerWolv) did a lot of discovery and has a great blog post [here](https://werwolv.net/blog/cat_printer) as well as a python implementation [here](https://github.com/WerWolv/PythonCatPrinter)

* [bad_opcode](https://twitter.com/bad_opcode) further documented the printers protocol [here](https://github.com/JJJollyjim/catprinter/blob/f5322f7d728ed491218d788f0eff6cad7e11ab3f/COMMANDS.md) and has a python implementation [here](https://github.com/amber-sixel/gb01print), which helped a lot in building this.

* [noopkat](https://twitter.com/noopkat) built a nice little [floyd-steinberg package](https://github.com/noopkat/floyd-steinberg), that saved me when I was having issues with [sharp's](https://sharp.pixelplumbing.com/) version.

* [watson](https://twitter.com/wa7son) for his really cool [ipp-printer package](https://github.com/watson/ipp-printer), that is the core of IPP mode.

* Last but not least, [xssfox](https://twitter.com/xssfox) was the one who inspired me to join in on this in the first place, she also has a python implementation [here](https://gist.github.com/xssfox/b911e0781a763d258d21262c5fdd2dec)
